Sec. 8-2-101.3.2. - Referenced codes.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
Building. The technical provisions of the International Building Code shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, demolition and removal of every building or structure on land or over water or any appurtenances connected with or attached to such buildings or structures in the unincorporated area of Jefferson Parish.
Exception. One- and two-family dwellings, townhouses, and buildings accessory thereto shall be governed by the International Residential Code. However, such buildings shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter regarding Foundations and Lot Grade (8-3-111).
Electrical. The provisions of the National Electrical Code shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances thereto.
Fuel Gas. The provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code shall apply to the installation of consumer's gas piping systems, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this chapter. These requirements apply to gas piping systems, extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances, and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories.
Mechanical. The provisions of the International Mechanical Code shall apply to the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and/or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems.
Plumbing. The provisions of the Louisiana State Plumbing Code shall apply to every plumbing installation, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances, when connected in any way (directly or indirectly) to the Parish water or sewerage system.
Fire Prevention. When the International Building Code makes specific reference to the Fire Code, it shall be understood that the International Fire Code applies. Plans being submitted for permitting shall comply with the provision of the International Fire Code and the Fire Prevention Code for the Parish of Jefferson and shall be reviewed for the fire code compliance by the Eastbank Consolidated Fire Department. In the event of conflict between the International Fire Code and any other Jefferson Parish requirement, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. No. 22755, ยง 2, 5-17-06)