Sec. 8-2-107.8.2. - Liens; adding costs and/or fines to ad valorem tax bill.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
(a)
The director or the parish attorney's office may record a certified copy of a judgment rendered by the Jefferson Parish Courts including justice of the peace courts, parish courts and district courts which impose fines or other charges in the public records of the parish.
(b)
Once recorded, the certified copy of this judgment shall constitute a lien against the land on which the violation exists, and any lien placed against such immovable property under this chapter shall be included in the next annual ad valorem tax bill and must be paid along with such taxes, subject, however, to any valid homestead exemption. Failure to pay the lien shall cause any parcel of immovable property which is not subject to a bona fide homestead exemption to be subject to the same provisions of law as govern tax sales of immovable property.
(c)
Any lien placed against immovable property that has a legal homestead exemption from taxes will become payable ninety (90) days after the death of the owner thereof or immediately upon transfer of title to a new owner, whichever comes first.
(d)
In addition to any other provisions regarding collection of costs for work performed pursuant to this article, if payment is not received within thirty (30) days of the original invoice date or the date pursuant to a court order, the parish may, at its option, proceed to adopt an ordinance levying the charges for such work plus fifteen (15) percent collection charges as an assessment to be added to the annual ad valorem tax bill of the premises or property involved.
(e)
The sheriff effecting collection shall be paid fifteen (15) percent of the amount of such charges actually collected from the proprietary party and/or owner of the premises or property involved.
(f)
Costs, including court costs or hearing costs, administrative fees, and any other fines assessed to the violator, if not paid timely pursuant to this section or a judgment or order, may be placed on the tax rolls for collection.
(Ord. No. 22755, ยง 2, 5-17-06; Ord. No. 23005, ยง 1, 2-28-07; Ord. No. 23806, ยง 1, 5-12-10)