DIVISION 1. - SURVEY AND STREET ADDRESS
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS

Sec. 8-3-108. - Survey and street address.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
All applicants seeking a building permit for any new construction or any construction which adds to any building's area shall furnish the code official a current, fully dimensioned survey, certified by a Louisiana licensed professional land surveyor, of the property on which the structure, building or addition is to be constructed. The required survey shall be drawn to scale and show the lot number, square number, north arrow, distance from nearest intersection, all applicable servitudes, width and depth of lot, and names of streets bounding the square on which the lot is located. In cases of doubt, the code official may require the applicant to produce the title papers and/or other documents which clearly identifies the location of the lot. For all residential permits, such survey shall be submitted on paper not larger than eight and one-half (8½) inches by fourteen (14) inches.
When the building permit is issued, the code official will designate (thereon) the street number that shall be posted on the completed building. On final approval of the building permit application, the code official shall furnish a placard showing the full municipal address and permit number. Said placard shall be conspicuously and continuously posted on the building site clearly visible from the street, at all times during construction.
Only one (1) municipal address shall be issued for a single principal building. Accessory buildings shall not be assigned a separate address. Buildings which are constructed as separate buildings in accordance with the applicable provisions of the International Codes may have a separate address. Two-family residential dwellings, constructed in accordance with the International Residential Code, shall have two (2) municipal addresses. Multiple family residential complexes, on a single property, may assign and post individual building designations which shall not conflict or be confused with the complex's primary address.
Every property owner shall provide, post and maintain in a permanent, durable and substantial manner, in a conspicuous place clearly visible from the street, the official municipal address prior to final inspection/release or occupancy. Such address shall be displayed on the building elevation facing the street, in accordance with the block and lot standards of Chapter 33 of this Code, on which the municipal address is assigned and shall be posted a minimum of five (5) feet above grade.
Schedule for Size of Municipal Numbers on Buildings
Minimum Height

of Numbers
Distance from

Street to Building
4″ 40′ or less
6″ 41′—50′
8″ 51′—75′
10″ 76′—100′
12″ 101′ or greater
Sizes greater than the above schedule are allowed.

NOTE: Color of numbers must contrast background where placed.
  (Ord. No. 22756, § 4, 5-17-06; Ord. No. 24085, § XIII, 8-3-11)