Sec. 8-2-107.8.1. - Violations and penalties.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
Any person, firm, corporation, organization or agent thereof who violates any provision of this chapter; or fails to comply with any requirement of this chapter; or who shall erect, construct, alter, install, demolish or move any building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, without having first obtained a proper building permit, or made proper application for inspection (filing); or who has done such work in contradiction to any requirement of this chapter, or any statement, drawing or document submitted and permitted hereunder, has committed a misdemeanor violation and may be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
Upon detection of or inspection for any violation of this chapter, in lieu of court summons, the code official shall issue the appropriate party(s) a violation notice. The violation notice shall specifically cite the infraction(s) of this chapter. Failure to remedy the violation(s) within ten (10) days from the violation notice may result in the filing of a lawsuit against the offending party(s).
Following a third or greater inspection of same property within a twelve-month period for repeat or new violations, a one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) administrative inspection fee shall apply per additional inspection until said violations are remedied.
Upon a finding of guilt, by a court of proper jurisdiction, the violation shall be a misdemeanor conviction and the guilty person, firm, corporation, organization or agent thereof shall be punished within the limits prescribed herein and as provided by law.
The fines for violations of this chapter shall range from twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day and/or such additional penalties as prescribed by law at the discretion of the presiding court officer.
Each person, firm, corporation, organization or agent thereof shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of this chapter is committed, continued or maintained and, as such, are subject to additional fines and penalties.
(Ord. No. 22755, ยง 2, 5-17-06; Ord. No. 23005, ยง 1, 2-28-07; Ord. No. 23807, ยง 2, 5-12-10)