Sec. 8-2-103.1.3.1. - Work not requiring a building permit.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
Generally, a building permit shall not be required for the following, unless in the opinion of the code official, it involves a hazardous or complex condition which requires permitting and inspection:
1.
Interior painting, tiling, carpeting and similar finish work;
2.
Paving of sidewalks, driveways, or other non-structural paving on private property; however, in accordance with Chapter 29, Roads and bridges of this Code, construction of sidewalks must be shown on plans for a building permit, construction of driveways and related paving in parish public right-of-way requires a permit from the department of public works, and certain zoning districts require review and approval of paving as part of site plan review and tree preservation;
3.
Exterior painting when not requiring protective scaffolding over public property;
4.
Change of roof covering (only) and/or gutter work with respect to one- and two-family dwellings;
5.
Replace soffit and/or facia (only) on all Type V construction;
6.
Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R, Division 3 occupancy which are less than twenty-four (24) inches (610 mm) deep;
7.
Vinyl siding or other non-structural exterior wall covering on one- and two-family dwellings only;
8.
Playhouses, swings and other similar playground equipment;
9.
Construction shacks or trailers on construction sites, during the time of active construction;
10.
Construction of on-grade parking lots, re-striping of such lots, or driveways connecting thereto; however, where a zoning base or overlay district in Chapter 33, Unified Development Code, or Chapter 40, Zoning, of this Code requires site plan review by the planning department, the parking lot layout including, but not limited to, required landscaping, striped parking spaces, drive aisles, and driveways must be shown on the site plan and approved as part of site plan review of a proposed development. Before commencement of work on any parking lot the department of inspection and code enforcement must approve construction on private property and the department of public works must approve work on all driveways on parish public property, except that the department of public works must review and approve certain proposed development including parking lots on private property in accordance with Chapter 14, Flood damage prevention ordinance, of this Code. The state must approve work on all driveways located in state right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 22755, ยง 2, 5-17-06; Ord. No. 25405 , ยง 2, 8-9-17)