Sec. 8-2-103.6.1. - Permit intent and term limit on permits for single-family residential dwellings.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
1.
Permit intent. A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the technical codes, nor shall issuance of a permit prevent the Code Official from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this Chapter. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six (6) months of its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six (6) months after the time the work is commenced. One (1) or more extensions of time, for periods not more than ninety (90) days each, may be allowed for the permit.
The extension shall be requested in writing to the code official. Permits for work not commenced within one (1) year from the date of issuance shall not be extended and permit shall be invalid. In such cases, a new permit application, plan, fees and permit shall be required.
2.
Term limit on permits for single-family residential dwellings. In addition to the foregoing provisions, which apply to all building permits, the following shall apply to permits for single-family residential dwellings:
a.
i.
The exterior of any single-family residential dwelling and accessory structure(s) under construction or renovation pursuant to a valid residential building permit must be completed in accordance with the standards set forth in Chapter 8 of the Jefferson Parish Code of Ordinances, entitled "Buildings and Building Regulations," within eighteen (18) months of the date of issuance of the building permit, except as provided below.
For any single-family residential dwelling permit issued prior to June 30, 2003, the exterior of the dwelling and accessory structure(s) must be completed within six (6) months of the effective date of this ordinance in accordance with this ordinance;
For any single-family residential dwelling permit issued on or after June 30, 2003, but prior to September 1, 2005, the exterior of the dwelling and accessory structure(s) must be completed within twelve (12) months of the effective date of this ordinance in accordance with this ordinance;
For any single-family residential dwelling permit issued on or after September 1, 2005, but prior to the effective date of this ordinance, the exterior of the dwelling and accessory structure(s) must be completed within eighteen (18) months of the effective date of this ordinance in accordance with this ordinance;
For any single-family residential dwelling permit issued on or after the effective date of this ordinance, the exterior of the dwelling and accessory structure(s) must be completed within eighteen (18) months of the issuance of the permit in accordance with this ordinance.
ii.
After the above-stated applicable exterior completion period, the construction or renovation site must be clear of all trash, debris, and construction materials with final grade established and being maintained in a neat and orderly manner in accordance with the requirements of this code.
b.
The department of inspection and code enforcement ("the code official") may grant one (1) extension of a period of not more than ninety (90) days for the completion of the exterior of the single-family residential dwelling and accessory structure(s) with justifiable cause shown and provided a written certification is made by the code official that the site is free and clear of all debris, trash, or building materials with final grade established and the site is being maintained in a neat and orderly manner in accordance with the standards set forth in Chapter 8 of the Jefferson Parish Code of Ordinances. Any extension granted by the code official shall be in writing. Justifiable cause for an extension includes, but is not limited to, size and scope of construction prevented completion within the applicable exterior completion periods and documented delays in the acquisition of necessary labor or building materials.
c.
The holder of the permit for a single-family residential dwelling for which the exterior of the dwelling and related accessory structure(s) are not completed within the applicable exterior completion periods outline above, i.e., six (6), twelve (12) or eighteen (18) months plus an extension if granted, shall be in violation of this section from the expiration of the applicable exterior completion period until a written certification, following an investigation, is issued by the code official that the exterior of the structure of the dwelling and accessory structure(s) are completed and the site is free and clear of all debris, trash and building materials with the final grade established and that the site is being maintained in a neat and orderly manner in accordance with the standards set forth in Chapter 8 of the Jefferson Parish Code of Ordinances, and shall be subject to the fines and penalties below. A fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be required for each such inspection and each re-inspection.
d.
Failure to comply with the applicable exterior completion period for a single-family residence shall invalidate the issued permit and a new permit shall be required for that project. A new permit shall not be issued unless and until the written certification is issued by the code official that the exterior of the dwelling and related accessory structure(s) are completed and the site is free and clear of all debris, trash and building materials with the final grade established and that the site is being maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Only work that is directly related to the completion of the exterior of the dwelling and related structure(s), the clearance of all debris, trash and building materials, the establishment of the final grade or the maintenance of the site in a neat and orderly manner shall be allowed on the project during the period after the initial permit has become invalid and prior to the issuance of a new permit.
e.
The violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment, within the discretion of the court. Each day any violation of any provision of this section shall continue constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 22755, ยง 2, 5-17-06; Ord. No. 22941, ยง 1, 12-13-06)