Sec. 8-5-118.22.3. - Cross-connections and storage tanks.
SHARE LINK TO SECTION
PRINT SECTION
DOWNLOAD (DOCX) OF SECTIONS
EMAIL SECTION
COMPARE VERSIONS
1.
The definition of a cross connection, as based upon the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Public Welfare's Public Health Service, is any physical connection or arrangement of pipes between two (2) otherwise separate water supply systems, one (1) of which contains potable water and other water of unknown or questionable safety, whereby water may flow from one (1) system to the other, the direction of flow depending on pressure differential between the two (2) systems.
2.
No cross connection shall be permitted to be made between any system of piping supplied by water from the mains of the water department and any other sources of supply, either public or private; or any secondary supplies known to be unsafe for drinking water, such as shallow wells, reused industrial supplies, raw surface water or swimming pools.
3.
Where city water is used as an auxiliary supply to a roof or suction tank, which is also supplied by water from any other source, such tank shall not be of the pressure type but open. The delivery of city water shall be above the tank flow line and controlled by same type of automatic valve.
4.
It shall be unlawful, also, to maintain storage tanks supplied only with city water, unless the tanks are satisfactorily built, and covered so as to prevent the entrance of contamination. They shall also be subject to periodical inspection by the water department and maintained in a manner wholly satisfactory to the standards and requirements of the state department of health. Pumps taking suction from the parish supply, serving such building storage, shall be installed or operated only upon permit from the water department subject to their approval as to size, capacity and valve arrangements.
5.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to interconnect private supplies, including deep well systems, with the water department system except as hereinafter provided.
A.
Correction and maintenance shall be performed in a manner satisfactory to the state department of health and the Jefferson Parish Water Department of all existing sanitary defects in and around the private supply system.
B.
Provision to be made for complete bacteriological analysis by the water department of the supply involved, in accordance with the standard methods of water analysis of the American Public Health Association. This requirement means not less than four (4) analyses each month of two (2) standard samples, or more often if the analyses warrant.
C.
Provisions by the owner of the private system involved to pay an equitable pro rata part of the cost of all inspections and testing herein required. The rates and method of payment shall be determined by the water department subject to the approval of the director of the water department.
6.
Should any system supplied by parish water be operated in violation of any provision of this article, it shall be the duty of the water department to completely disconnect all service liens serving such system until this section is properly complied with. Any cost of such disconnection and the estimated cost of reconnection must be paid by the consumer before service shall be restored.
(Ord. No. 22756, ยง 4, 5-17-06)